---
name: King Arthur, Wellingborough Singers
date: 2022-03-05T17:00:27.652Z
venue: Wellingborough United Reformed Church
externalLink: https://wellingboroughsingers.org/welcome/about
---
Our second concert of our 2021/22 season takes place almost forty-one years to the day since our first ever concert performance: Saturday 5 March 2022 at 5:00pm. It is fitting that the work we perform is the same as that first concert – Henry Purcell’s King Arthur. It would have happened forty years to the day, but sadly Covid-19 got in the way!
Setting words by John Dryden, who grew us just a few miles North-east of Wellingborough in Titchmarsh, Purcell’s epic tale tells the story of Arthur, king of the Britons and Oswald, Saxon king of Kent. They are rivals for the hand of Emmeline, the blind daughter of the Duke of Cornwall. Already ten bloody battles have been fought and the Saxons have been driven back. The decisive conflict is about to be launched when Emmeline and her attendant Matilda are captured by Oswald. Arthur, having resisted the temptations of two sirens, captures the spirit Grimbald and breaks the enchantments that are set against him. In the last act the opposing armies fight: Arthur meets Oswald in hand-to-hand conflict and, disarming him, offers him his freedom. Emmeline (whose sight has been restored) and Arthur are united. Merlin banishes the winds and Britain’s island rises from the sea.

It is an epic story, and highlights include the frost scene, the music of which featured in the TV series The Crown, and the song Fairest Isle, all isles excelling, a pæan of praise for this sceptred isle, so fitting for this Platinum Jubilee year of Her Majesty the Queen.

We are delighted to be joined by the period instrument orchestra Charivari Agréable, and their vivacious director Dr Kah-Ming Ng, for this performance.